# ArmyAircraftNotebook
A list of reports and other such findings on my research regarding the army aircraft notebook. I plan to include weekly reports of word documents that contain my recent findings and topics I'm currently diving into. I also plan to include sources/links that will lead to most of the information that I have included in regards to the topic. I also might end up writing up short papers to help myself keep track of each individual subtopic when it comes to picking apart the Army Aircraft Notebook. 
	
   Report #1:

   This week I began my studies by reading through the Army Aviation Magazine’s section dedicated to Army aircraft operations. As I reviewed the article, I realized there was a lot of terms on here I didn’t recognize so I decided to pick them apart one by one, leading us to the first term, AMPS & CAFRS interface. The AMPS stands for Aviation Mission Planning System, whereas the CAFRS stands for Centralized Aviation Flight Records System. AMPS is based on a lightweight and efficient workstation that automated aviation mission planning. This system is often used and favored due to the capabilities of being able to quickly adjust mission details and provide situational awareness. AMPS began it’s field usage in May 2017 in Fort Rucker, Alabama, now it’s currently being developed to being offered on the Windows 10 OS and also provide the user an improved tactical graphic editor tool. This tool offers a quad core processor, an improved GPU, 32 GB of RAM, and a quick and reliable SSD. Moving on to the CAFRS, it is important to note that this is a function of AMPS. It manages the training records and the flight records as well as providing decision making support based on outcomes belonging to these records. By tracking multiple flight related details CAFRS is capable of supporting risk assessment throughout the mission process. The next version, v4.0.3 is currently in development and it’s being created to better improve the Aircrew Training Folder overall capability and be able to automate the management of Aircrew Training Folder for future usage. 
	
   Report #2:
	
   As the week progressed, I continued researching primarily on my first set of articles published by the Army Aviation Magazine. I’ve been searching through the catalogue of the website in order to try and find past editions of the articles in an attempt to get a solid understanding of the history of the army aircraft notebook as a whole. While this idea undoubtedly led me to learning a lot more about aircrafts, I didn’t find as much about the ACN as I thought I would have, so I deemed what I learned to be a sort of background knowledge and started trying out a few other sites on the web. So, after scrapping together the last bits that I could find in the backlog and searching for websites related to them, I ended up finding a presentation dedicated to picking apart the entirety of aviation networks, including the ACN. Here the presentation broke down the ACN into 4 sections, Communication, Maintenance Processes, Forms/Records, and Aircraft Data. In this report, I’ll briefly go over the first two of these points. The communications portion handles how data is transmitted to the external systems of the aircraft this is referred to as JTDI, as well as parsing the aircraft’s data for the ACN, then finally it sends this parsed data into the JTDI. Lastly, the communication portion of ACN dedicated to a training portion known as MFOQA (Military Flight Operations Quality Assurance) programs designed for enhancing the maintenance operation safety training. Moving on, the Maintenance Processes, first we have the IETM (Interactive Electronic Technical Manual) which interacts with the displays and the updates of the software, which is followed up by the GSS analytic tool which interprets aircraft data for the IETM and MIS (Management Information Systems). It also handles smaller details such as specific tasks similar to that of an aircraft test flight calculator. 
	
   Report #3:
	
   Starting this week, I continued to study the Aviation Commonality presentation I found the week prior. To jump right into it, I’ll begin by discussing the Forms & Records (F&R) portion of ACN software. When it comes to F&R the first thing to know is it’s often referred to as the MIS, or Maintenance Information System. This system is responsible for recording the army maintenance management system (TAMMS) updates when regarding forms and data, as well as interactions between communications and notifications/updates for where data is being sent to and from. This portion of the software is where a user could find a directory dedicated to keeping up with the maintenance through records and other such records. As for the Aircraft Data, the last branch of the ACN software stations, it mainly handles data received from monitoring support devices. These can include but are not limited to, fault detection, troubleshooting, condition-based maintenance, and MFOQA initiatives. The most in-depth of these support devices would be of the condition-based maintenance, or CBM for short. CBM is responsible for improving operational availability and reduce the required maintenance so that the user/soldier doesn’t need to spend as much time on that process. This is done by making use of enhanced diagnostics, embedded sensors, prognostic equipment installation, and other such features included with the goal of minimizing the amount of work required by the user of the aircraft. With these features mentioned included in the aircraft, the amount of work required by the pilot is greatly reduced so they need not focus on busy work like tasks that would only take up precious time for the soldier. While many of the features mentioned in this report were based on organizational goals, these points are as important as any other part of the ACN as without this level of organization, the software would be an absolute mess.

   Report #4:
   
   In my last report, I discussed the points of the ACN’s software propriety points. Though this week I tried to focus more on how the ACN responds to other systems in the aircraft. I started by working on researching the wireless interaction between the ACN and the Combat Service Support Automated Information Systems Interface, also known as the CAISI. The purpose of the CAISI is to be able to properly provide the ACN with things like flight operations, production control, and overall quality control. This way, the ACN can receive a constant flow of information from the CAISI to the degree of it being able to be one of the main connection points from the militaries ground station back to the ACN software device in the aircraft. The CAISI is attached to a wide array of different devices and stations all dedicated to giving the ACN the best possible variety of options, features, and capabilities as far as it’s software can enable it. That’s one major reason why it’s vital for all these nodes of communication to be connected as they are, for the upmost care of security and clarity between the ground systems and the aircraft. The purpose of the CAISI is to act as a communications interface for information systems, CAISI has the capability to secure connections with relative ease and without the need of an expensive design. A CAISI normally is comprised of two radios and is dual-band frequency capable. While this design, as mentioned before, isn’t exactly as impressive as the ACN’s design, it’s the message being delivered that makes it so demanding and important. With this tool being used for data collection, the ACN can interpret the data transferred to it, with that being the case, it’s up to the ACN to make the most of it and ensure both a safe flight and monitor flight operations for the pilot, leaving the pilot with the least amount of work as possible due to this chain of communication mentioned prior. 
	
   Report #5: 
   
   This week my report focused primarily on learning more about a system that is closely related to the ACN, which is the Aviation Mission Planning Systems, or the AMPS for short. I briefly mentioned this system before when I went into detail on the four subsystems of the ACN’s software, but I didn’t get into the purpose and practices of the system. That is what I’ll be covering in this report. I found quite a lot of this information on the exhibit P-40 Budget Line document covering the financial supports regarding ACN, AMPS, and several other noteworthy designs. This document will be included in the source material page of the GitHub. The AMPS is dedicated to working alongside the ACN software systems, it is designed to support the pre-mission planning, this can include but is not limited to the route planning, communications planning, as well as aircraft configuration systems. These mission data forms are made into both physical and electronic formats. The electronic formats are the portion that is sent to ACN subsystems that process this kind of information so that it can be used in flight for both more confirmed security and an overall more informed experience as far as how the aircraft will handle the flight based on the data it has. As for the software side of the AMPS it is supports the FiteScene Software licenses, manages agreements and related engineering services. FiteScene is a digital mapping system that provides enhanced mapping systems that holds to high performance, dynamic elevation bandings, threat depiction, variable scaling, and symbology overlays. Moving to the hardware side, the AMPS hardware is noted to be replaced every 5 years to ensure there’s no faulty works or slowing systems during usage. More about both software and hardware for AMPS can be found in report 5.1 on the GitHub, where I have attempted to make a large-scale presentation of capabilities without constrictions of space requirements.
   
   Report #5.1: TBA
   
   Report #6: TBA

